Enhance asset modeling capabilities in DTM (#4363)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/application-enablement/dtm-1024-1-0-convert-asset-models-to-generic-asset-models.md

---
date: '2026-02-19'

> title:  New Flexible Asset Modeling Capabilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title:  New flexible asset modeling capabilities
```

  - label: eu-latest.cumulocity.com
    date: '2026-02-19'
---

> The **Digital Twin Manager (DTM)** application now offers more flexible asset modeling, reducing dependence on rigid schemas and enabling you to represent physical assets with fewer upfront constraints. This change supports a more agile approach to defining and evolving your digital representations of physical assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Digital Twin Manager (DTM) application now offers more flexible asset modeling, reducing dependence on rigid schemas and enabling you to represent physical assets with fewer upfront constraints. This change supports a more agile approach to defining and evolving your digital representations of physical assets.
```

Reviewer 2: still too repetitive I think (rigid, constraints vs. flexible, agile) - can be much shorter.

```suggestion
The **Digital Twin Manager (DTM)** application now offers more flexible asset modeling. This update reduces dependence on rigid schemas, allowing you to evolve your digital asset representations more easily.
```

> To support this flexibility, two new configuration options are now available in asset model definitions:

Reviewer 2: @rahulc8y - we need to clarify if it is definitions now already or still models and stick to one or the other. Otherwise it is confusing here.

> - **Allow any subasset models**: This option removes strict restrictions on subasset types. When enabled, any asset model can be nested under the parent model, giving you greater flexibility in defining *asset hierarchies* as your environment evolves.

Reviewer 2: the evolving part we already mention 2 sentence earlier and that it is an option is mentioned right before.  So also here, we can make it much shorter.

```suggestion
- **Allow any subasset models**: Nest any asset under a parent without strict type restrictions.
```

> - **Allow all properties**: Assets created from models with this option enabled can include properties that were not defined in the original asset model. This allows you to enrich assets with new data over time without needing to update the schema first.

Reviewer 2: also here, the first part can be removed.

```suggestion
- **Allow all properties**: Add data to assets even if the properties weren't defined in the original model. This allows you to enrich assets with new data over time without updating the asset model first.
```

By enabling these flexible model settings, you can build your digital twin structures earlier and refine them incrementally — supporting iterative modeling and real-world variability.

> In addition, we have introduced a new default asset model, **“Generic Asset”** (key: `c8y_GenericDefinition`). It allows all subasset models and properties by default. The model is protected and **cannot be deleted**, ensuring system consistency and preventing accidental removal of this required base definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, we have introduced a new default asset model, “Generic Asset” (key: `c8y_GenericDefinition`). It allows all subasset models and properties by default. The model is protected and **cannot be deleted**, ensuring system consistency and preventing accidental removal of this required base definition.
```

Reviewer: Quotes are sufficient (following the rule that we only use one highlighting method). Is this the proper spelling (capitalized)?

> In addition, we have introduced a new default asset model, **“Generic Asset”** (key: `c8y_GenericDefinition`). It allows all subasset models and properties by default. The model is protected and **cannot be deleted**, ensuring system consistency and preventing accidental removal of this required base definition.

Reviewer 2: AFAIK it is actually just called "c8y_GenericDefinition" in the API and "Generic" as a name (but this can be changed anyway) - so the name doesn't matter actually.

```suggestion
In addition, we have introduced a new default asset model (key: `c8y_GenericDefinition`) that enables both flexible options by default to help you get started quickly. The model is protected and **cannot be deleted**, ensuring system consistency and preventing accidental removal of this required base definition.
```

Author: Removed the name.
